Joseph Medrano and Rahat Mazhar

How to Improve your Mental and Physical Health
Learn the importance of mental Health
Tips and tricks for improves mental health
Importance of physical health

Home:
Come and learn the importance of caring for one's mind and body and the impact it can play on yourself

Info on MENTAL HEALTH

Why it's important to improve your mental health?
In today's society it's important that we not only care for ourselves physically but maintain a strong mental health as well. As having a sharper mind will allow for a increase your quality of life being able to significantly reduce stress and depression. By focusing on improving your mental health you’ll be able to reshape the way you think developing a more critical and logical mindset that will influence your emotions in a more beneficial manner. 

Benefits of being mentally healthy:
-reduction of stress and depression
-more positive mindsetI
-sharper and more critical mind
-a sense of more energy
-increase in quality of sleep
-boost in ones image of self (self-esteem)
-prevent brain cognitive decline
-Decreased Anxiety
-Increase in social interaction
-Self-control
-Higher productivity

Ways to improve your mental health
There are multiple ways that one is able to improve their mental health

Sleeping Well
While this may seem bland its true that sleeping more will have a positive impact on your mental health. When one suffers from a lack of sleep it often results in them unable to regulate their thoughts and emotions as effectively of someone else. Not only that a lack of sleep will leave the mind exhausted and paranoid unable to function properly, However, a good night's sleep will refresh the mind and prepare it for the next day.

Working out
Taking care of yourself physical will not only improve your physical health but your mental health as well. It will allow for a more positive mindset and a boost in one's self esteem. This in turn will help allow for a decline in depression and increase social interaction allowing for a overall improvement of one's happiness

Playing Video Games:
Many usually argue that play video games often make a person aggressive and hostile with them  unable to regulate stress and anger levels. But this is not the case. Videogames have often been a outlet for many to reduce stress and depression and allow them to develop a more positive mindset. With them being open a almost limitless possibility of gaming genres they are able to have access to multiple  ways to improve their mental health. From games like portal allowing for a increase in a more logical and critical mindset focusing on decision making and puzzle solving. To games like Overwatch helping reduce ones anxiety through social interaction.


Gallery
3 images



Info on PHYSICAL HEALTH

Why it’s important to improve your physical health?

Physical activity or exercise can improve your health and reduce the risk of developing several diseases like type 2 diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular disease. Physical activity and exercise can have immediate and long-term health benefits. Most importantly, regular activity can improve your quality of life. 

Benefits of being physically healthy:
reduce your risk of a heart attack 
manage your weight better 
have a lower blood cholesterol level 
lower the risk of type 2 diabetes and some cancers
have lower blood pressure 
have stronger bones, muscles and joints 
feel better – with more energy, a better mood, feel more relaxed and sleep better. 

Ways to improve your physical health:

Drink More Water
Because the body is primarily composed of water, staying hydrated is crucial to your physical health. Staying properly hydrated helps the body's cells to function more efficiently. 

Exercise regularly
Take a walk, ride a bike, or jog around the neighborhood. Push-ups, sit-ups, leg lifts, lunges, and stretching go a long way toward improving your health. Getting off the couch to play a sport or go on a hike as a family creates good habits and a healthier you.

Eat more fruits and vegetables rather than unhealthy foods
 Fruits and vegetables contain natural vitamins and minerals your body needs to function optimally. Snack on apples instead of chips, enjoy a carrot instead of french fries. Because these unhealthy foods just lead to weight gain and sickness

Sleep Well
Sleep allows the body to restore itself, cells to repair themselves, and the brain to reboot. Seven or eight hours each night should be a good amount of sleep.
Gallery
3 images

